welcome to the IDF s in web browsers and
GUI team weekly sync cool more places
than ever on the call it's very good
news so we will start off with a round
of show-and-tell about things that we
worked on in the last week and then we
also go back to the agenda which
includes switching to CID v12 face 30
team language repinning sharing and
saving and an NPM won't give us at
discussion but first top of the list
he's very organized Lydell ok I would
take that ok so this is sort of a long
list of stuff I've been touching this
week so I'll just go briefly over most
important or like most interesting parts
and skip stuff that's not that
interesting
just let me realign all the windows yep
so I've added optional support for
translations of blog posts to aquafers
blog so there's a PR with more details
but if you just basically scroll to the
very bottom you will see there's there's
probably I think I can just show you
because it's already merged so if you
right now I think there's only one post
translated but Chinese simplified but if
you go to like ipfs weekly level you can
see that there's a section that says
this post is also available in different
languages and there's just Chinese
version and if you go there it will load
you can see location bar there's a
language code graphics there is like
link back to English and other versions
there's a section in Chinese it's sort
of like a disclaimer that sometimes
technical terms and concepts are hard to
translate from English to other
languages and if you want to double
check if you are unsure about something
just
- original English version that's sort
of a fail-safe we've built into falcone
websites and I feel it's quite useful
and if you go to page source and go to
the header you will see there are all
the meta headers pointing at the
canonical version the default language
and all the available translations are
also listed there so it should work
quite well so that for translations for
translations are also other I think a
locale for Brazil and that landed in IP
first companion release v28 one and also
in this release we fixed we fixed a
problem with if someone had HTTP he had
ipfs api exposed over HTTP so if some
people used self-signed certificates and
stuff like that that did not work it now
works and why I was like fixing that I
also noticed that it does not work in
Yui and some other places so I fixed and
bubble up all the fixes in those places
but I think the most interesting part is
update on brave so I wrote a sort of
more details as usually in my weekly
dump of Chrome socket related stuff but
I feel I am able to make a quick demo so
basically it's still on this very field
with chrome sockets branch but it's not
ready to be merged upstream what I've
added is basically a runtime like
feature detection of chrome sockets at
the runtime so basically the same build
of our keifa's companion can run on
regular chrome and if this chrome build
gives access to chrome sockets it
automatically upgrades and the Death
Note 2
so I have like the pre-built version of
companion here from that branch and I
love that it is brave and you can see it
it's a fresh install so it's just how it
would look like when a new person is
installing a companion in brave so you
can see that what's interesting is that
ipfs companion is already set you are
connected to eight peers and if you
check you can see that you are actually
running JS ipfs and it's Jess idea
France is exposing both gateway API and
all the usual manual entries are
available and you can basically just
open web UI and you can see here that
the web UI loaded from the gateway
exposed by the browser accession itself
and it just works so it connected to the
gate report it connected it has access
to the Gateway port it's using the API
from the browser extension itself you
know and all pages work and I can't even
like upload entire I guess I can maybe
maybe this one entire directory I hope
there is nothing it should be family
friendly so right and what's interesting
is that all the content that is locally
available you can explore using between
actually being Explorer and when you
open on the ipfs gateway it will
redirect to the local gateway and this
listing is from the browser extension
itself and you can just load the image
directly what's cool is that you have
access to the settings page and you can
edit the configuration of lambeth alone
and is there right and there's also like
refreshed settings page where instead of
regular embedded note you have this
embedded plus chrome sockets and three
instead of the regular one this probably
needs a lot of refinement but right now
you can tweak ports here and those ports
will be automatically populated to
browser extension so you just change
them here and it will change everywhere
I also picked custom ports so you can
run go ipfs and Jessica TFS on the same
machine without the need for changing
default ports just to remove alliances
for like regular people playing with it
so the problem is I I did some like
troubleshooting around this and content
discovery was very very slow yesterday
it's better today and there are small
issues with loading specific content
over DNS link and Charlotte directories
but so this stuff is ongoing efforts to
refine it my and my plan for the next
week is to investigate how we can
improve content discovery and clean up
all the patches cause I was focusing on
the UX of companion making sure all the
like options if you are black you can
see that this is a EFS resource and all
the regular options are available you
can even like pin or copy stuff so I
profess companion is fully recognizing
embedded node I settled it no there's a
feature parity sort of with external
node and the next step is to clean up a
few remaining absolute patches and I
have time to sync with rave on Friday on
next steps regarding the user experience
and I also started talking with infra
how can we improve content discovery
because we could either we could either
set up
our own like WebSocket based more boost
up nodes more crit nodes specific to the
Bridgeview for the bridge users or we
could just invest some time into people
to be transport and that way it would
just work because it would interrupt
with goal notes so that's my plan and on
Friday I'm also meeting with extension
developer advocate and chrome to discuss
like upcoming changes in like WebEx
nation echo system I've been talking for
too long sorry about that kubernetes
yeah I can show I think you want it will
be very brief you can like pause the
recording of this meeting later and see
no yeah any questions for ladle I have a
question
do we know if we are planning to ship
with chrome sockets enabled by default
in brave and the second question I had
to that ops bundle them up here is you
talked about the content discovery
performance stuff kind of almost weather
report like it was better today than
yesterday do we do he do we know where
that's coming from or is it really just
straight up we have unpredictable number
performance some aspects ignasi's yeah
sure so so just the first question the
plan is to merge this branch to the
master branch of activist companion and
basically from the master branch we are
building two versions of the extension
package one is specific for Firefox
because there are some additional
api's for Firefox and there's a separate
one the generic one for all the chromium
based browsers and basically what I did
last week was to ensure that this
generic build can work in both chrome
chromium based browsers and in brave and
the idea for like launching it it's sort
of like soft path
first we want to just publish this like
runtime feature detection with like
regular into regular better channel
without any adding any additional UX to
the brief itself so basically that would
enable us to dog food more people who
like every adaptors can claim with it
report bugs and problems and when we
feel that this like experience with
member that node is good enough then
we'll add like the toggle to the brave
to make it one click install but for I
believe that it will take more more
significant time and I don't think we
should add this toggle before we have
like actual peer-to-peer transports that
interrupt with each other so that for
the first question for the second
question about like content discovery
right now
then but that note has my explicitly
removed all the transports apart from
the WebSockets one because that one is
very stable and it only creates
connections to eight hosts and that's
what it's using right now it does not
connect to anything else so the problem
with the discover content discovery is
that we are not able to fetch any
content unless one of eight nodes that
we are connected to has already like
that data in which we have kept riddled
nodes which preload that content we want
to through those nodes but that did not
work as expected yesterday so I'm
talking with in fact that was like a
problem on my end can we improve it
there are other options who won the
dimension is to use p2p transport that
interrupts will go and other nodes
that's like the end goal but we may
improve things by enabled outer relays
you know playing with WebRTC or some
signaling servers for WebRTC we'll see
so that's that yeah so we what we need
is a daily weather report on the ambient
network health
maybe as a dashboard rather I mean I
think libel presenting it would be fun
time-consuming
okay if there's no other questions I
think I was gonna say I see there's no
one in yours form but I think he just
answered that yeah okay up next it's in
reek and I am his proxy because we
haven't moved the meeting time yet so he
still can't be here
the exciting thing from Henrique is that
if you install I give his desktop and
you don't have the IPS command line tool
on your path
now either stuff so we'll install it so
there's a red er basically so all our
documentation now talks about using the
command line tool so it's nice that we
can now recommend it so basically it's
still desktop get my my tools we can
simplify the install instructions on the
website which are currently terrible
because right now go to IP desktop I
know it's like oh you should install up
your fence and redirect and then you're
like I shouldn't know your occasions do
I give this it's like Oh download at our
CD into it run some scripts the you know
it does and maybe it works maybe it
doesn't we ran through this with area
tilde and on a stock install of Mac OSX
today this script does not work so these
scripts are extra terrible because there
are a level of complexity if you're a
beginner you're not going to get through
them and if you're advanced you already
know how to do it so the big win means
we can skip that I pivot bad so this is
me just stepping out and it did the
thing there's a layer of indirection in
there so that basically we link to a
shell scripts what I get this poster
looks after so that we can update the
version of go up if s as overly update
mechanism the inspecting
which is great so it seems this is very
much aimed at being the casual users
experience of IP events like you don't
really necessarily want to think about
which is a bit version uses you just
want a tool that sits on your taskbar
and keeps you wearing the latest version
and keeps that daemon running so we're
much closer and we the next step is to
go and buy the install instructions it's
positive and also getting it working on
Windows at the same time which is C
correct and we also found out about the
mysterious permission out to your memo
about when you sort of note X we
couldn't figure out the local that's why
it prompted us for this weird you must
allow access the system events like
let's that's nonsensical assistant man
and it turns out that that is the
permission required to have you'll have
to be able to launch it startup which is
interesting because they never actually
seem to prompt me for that at least we
now have a root cause so we can start
there unpack if there's a solution to it
that involves not scaring users when
it's going up that would be nice
what else so we're very near to we've
reduced the scope of the odo 8 desktop
release it had a bunch of other nice to
have seen but there is a new release of
go IP offense and that's less relevant
that there's a new release of go up if
this hold on 20 that is when he's
candidate already with it she fixes a
bunch of bugs and last time it took us
about three weeks two to three weeks to
get okay it's best not released after
and I think that's release and people
started raising issues on desktop saying
this is terrible I want the latest GOG
your best
what is activist just of doing you must
release things immediately so this we're
not you know desperate to pander to
these people but it is nice to have a
release schedule and cables but somewhat
mirrors the latest and greatest go give
us
I'm sure it's not attending but he is
working on a new release of J ahsoka
that's over 35 but it got stuck
the Colonel's basically problems with
DHT performance means that announcing
agile professed release that says hey
look everyone it's got the DHT and then
then trying it and basically having a
terrible time didn't seem like a good
thing to push on the world so the the
DHT work is being backed out of the out
of the five release so that they can get
out of the door because it has a bunch
of other fixes in the drone and then I
think digitally are going to the over
basically is what he's saying other bug
fixes GUI team okay arts the we spoke
about swine squawking about it and we
came up with dish list of things the
conversation in the chat is not for me
to see so please just do you have
volatile taking notes so no one wanted
taking notes so Dietrich voluntary
particular thank you very much that's
okay the notes section is definitely
more relevant for the agenda items such
as people saying what we've done anyone
who was at Lisbon might recognize this
list for the blue team it was a good
list we spoke about it a lot it didn't
contain anything significant about the
package managers endeavor which is the
number one priority for the entire
organization this issue has noticed by
the project overlords and we responded
and so now we never added a get a
thousand users actively re hosted in
modules quiet and p.m. when I give this
map as a top priority for the Gary thing
it was a subject that came up in Lisbon
but it wasn't we weren't clear how to
approach it in a way that would be super
valuable and we got excited about other
things but when when people were like
hey come on guys
we didn't really have a leg to stand on
so things have been realigned but
we don't know what to do yet there's a
couple of things that I need from folks
on is cool hey that's a very little
feedback on this list and this is what
the GUI team will be working on for the
next three months
so please oh wait because loads of
feedbacks just plus ones all over the
place yeah great a lack of comment means
everyone's up for it super cool we
didn't take out the the thing that we
got excited about was have a service
that makes it super easy to deploy
websites - okay that's it's not out of
the list but it has been dropped down to
a p2 so it's something that I'm
personally excited to work on so
eventually in spare cycles who you make
progress with that but I did want to
talk a little bit about this NPM when I
give a snap but I think we'll circle
back to that
in agenda time because it's a pretty
open-ended discussion right to the
agenda
Alex raised an issue whereby we were
doing a bad job of preserving the base
that the IDS work avoided in in the word
fix is 99 which is the emergency
services in the UK there's no subject so
very much like it's the issue number
that I got so obviously the IP of the
Explorer is my baby and I get very upset
when people discover problems with it I
like so it's like here is a glaring
problem with the IP of the Explorer and
you pass it a base 30 to use the ID and
it will force it it will brutally coerce
it into a face with the opt C flavor
which is exactly not what you want from
this tool because it's expressed purpose
to take one give it and to have it
explained to you information about the
CID you gave it not for it to pretend it
was Miller CID but instead another
problem was deeper deeper in stack and
basically when you pass a string to a
JSC ID object it was the thing that was
losing information about the base you
had provided so I think I mentioned was
briefing last week but the problem in
the old world was looking past a CID
object Australian that was included in
misleading - it would not preserve
information and return it to the default
density anyway we've dug in and fixed it
and it's released and the border to
multiple dependency and that finally
it's live on review life it's about is
give the documentation so that beginners
might move verifying figuring out how to
use Jack's ready because the whole thing
is quite an odd look at that Geo we can
come back to that when we look around
and p.m. do any question to me and
Faline on I mean definitely so okay yeah
so I'm sharing this the thing
hey how's everyone so good awesome
so last week I've been digging burrows
cold and bleak things are good
where am I
yeah so we shipped the NiO project
structure that I talked about last week
for those who don't know what I'm
talking about
basically we componentized some of the
main components for school and now
they're really components because they
weren't and what that makes it's it give
us the ability not for us but for
everyone who is going to to have
tutorials the process is so much easier
I'm not going to show it again because I
already showed it last week but it is
now and it's it's live so if you
want to add a new tutorial you just have
to fill out some some some fields you
know a Jason document and everything
just like magic
so let's go
yeah I've been doing some fixes to the
to some parts of the site for example
and just one of them when we're
in a tutorial for example this wasn't a
link so if you want wanted to go to the
mini landing page you had to come to the
tutorials and then choose the tutorial
again but right now this is a link so
you're inside the data structures on any
lesson you just click here and you go to
the index of that lesson so that's a bit
that helps something so I made some
other fixes yeah but my my main goal and
what I've been looking at is the code
validation
until now that wasn't a big problem but
right now is being a problem with the
new on what Terry and I are working but
it's a new lesson of the IP FSM arrest
so we're adding files were creating new
directories what's happening right now
yeah I have to go to this French just
let me show you this is unlife because
it's already progress
so what
is imagine you had a file this is a
lesson that's being worked but what's
happening is when this error that you
see here this was not supposed to be
here because this error is being is
being IVFs is erroring and instead of
this being spit out to us and we can say
okay this error occur so just let's
let's put a message out that the user
will understand that's not happening
this is going over an algorithm and it's
being automatically appearing here so
basically had no control if ipfs for
example if I put this
yeah ipfs well whatever is not a
function this is being spit out by a BFS
and we have no control whatsoever I'm
looking at this from what I've have been
looking I think this will will be a huge
refactor to to make it work
but I think we have to do this because a
user that doesn't know a lot about ipfs
these errors are they aren't met they
aren't clear what you have to do so we
really need to fix this so I think I'll
continue to work on this this is a
priority to make the files upload
license worth having I think there's a
question from Cuba do I think on JSTOR
ipfs are you we have something similar
to this as in we have a text input where
the user can put some calls using the IP
FS API if if I remember correctly the
way we are evaluating the code and
running it get us we have access to the
to the exceptions and the errors that
come out of five FS and we can like okay
if this error equals to this message or
whatever just show other other types of
messages so I think you can look at that
code and find finally some that I can
reuse yeah yeah but the thing is that's
our goal but the problem right now is
how this is wire so the way this is what
buyer gave you this wasn't taken on
consideration so that's the main problem
okay if you need some else just be
alright thanks I'll take a look and
probably I'll have some idea well I can
make this better something I just want
to call out that's cool
the project restructuring that Diego
took the lead on is we ended up getting
to a point where we realized it made
sense to build in now this concept of
course is like it's not fully structured
so we can kind of create one in the
sense that we envision long term but
there's you know an array of things that
we want to appear on the homepage as
featured and there's an array of things
that we want to appear in the list
that's supposedly all but won't always
look that way on the main page so
there's been some kind of future
proofing in this structure that's going
to be really cool
noise yeah thanks I always forgets
telling was tough thanks okay Hugo
everything
sure so what I've been doing
I finished the poly quest about removing
the IP LD formats for browser builds we
add some back-and-forth in that
discussion I think right now we finally
convinced Alan on a compromise so
hopefully that will be merged quickly I
just need to finish up some of the
feedback on that PR also did some work
on the CLI moved around some any of em
FS commands that were in the wrong place
added a safer way to handle exits or
force exits I still need to fix the test
because some of them are failing and
still run why I also reviewed simple
requests fix some stuff on HTTP client
about buffer not being included when you
use browserify and most of my week was
on doing a proof of concepts for the
fast happiness yeah but I'll talk more
about it later and blocks on Poland Plex
basically requested swaps the old
impacts for the bullying the new pull em
Plex which will probably fix vo supports
in Peru school and next I'll be adding
for file and file lists the JSP FS files
API I will continue my research on IPS
ipfs over whatever
hopefully I'll figure out then the DNS
part quickly I have some questions then
to to find answers we also have a
meeting next week with the other guys
that are looking at IPS like alien and
Pedro and stuff like that and I will fix
JSF EFS because right now we cannot
resolve ibn as the path we'd basically
domains and that will be helpful for IP
a nice and helpful helpful for browsing
the intubation brave integration and
yeah that's for now it's it any
questions
I wanna see your super secret super
secret demo later okay if there's a
question just people in deitrick do you
want to share a thing I I have some
things I could share and I shared a
screen yeah :
so yes still in that heavy reading and
read mode managed to you we did a little
bit of work as the GUI team did around
the ok are so he came out of lisp it
with also reshuffling and prioritizing
IP address' camp and the MPM are the
package management priority but i am
sharing the e oh here we go
this one
ah if you look at this issue which I
will also link that screen is motion
it's not shared no shared a repeat
warning oh that's alright Freda yes
not a single click it's a double click
or a quad click if you're want to make
really sure um so yeah support ipfs camp
p0 support package managers p0 and a
whole bunch of things around reducing
surprises for web developers but only
couple hundred p0 but it's been cool to
see the overlap between many things that
we need to support a BFS camp like view
and the things that we need to support
package managers like being faster and
all of these things also already making
progress well week after we got out of
list fitter and made all these decisions
and only a few days after we made more
decisions after getting back from Lisbon
one of the things I did last week too is
record the video so you can hear me
saying some of these same things but
maybe faster slightly more well not more
polished but I will upload that to the
drive and I guess I the processes that
those get mixed up with other people's
videos and then they publish a big video
at some point though that was the ask
but I'm unaware of any progress or
process that's going to lead to that
happening all right well whatever here
the game I could I could rerecord it in
a whole bunch of times to moving back to
the things that I actually did
did a few things around the
collaborations work some stuff that's
not necessarily too directly to web
browsers working group but involves some
web browsers we are talking to a bunch
of friendly collaborators that want to
put that are using IP that's already and
want to put it in more places so those
are the things that is a ecosystem
growth engineer that I'm really excited
by we'll have more details about that
but there are things like I talked to
somebody at Microsoft about their side
tree project which uses IP FS for
identity services you're interested in
the identity work which I think from our
project perspective has been a little
bit deprioritized for this year but is
still ongoing in a lot of different
areas a couple of different things to
you around kind of like community post
kind of stuff so harvesting Stack
Overflow posts being aware of what type
of questions people are asking you know
I noticed that I keep finding tweets
where people are like X with ipfs so I
started harvesting some of those things
out of Twitter and seeing where with
ipfs was building up there which is kind
of fun and various explorations around
visualizing and hopefully awesome is to
show next week visualizing some of what
our activity is around like this basic
flow of adding a file and there's
different ways you can do it and the
operations result in different outcomes
and different places that we actually
have user facing things like see a web
UI desktop companion and what these
different user flows look like when you
walk down them these different parts of
our products and then I think the other
conversational piece that I had was in
the agenda so I'll stop there and Kim
sure noise
any questions with Dietrich like can't
see your place is a TV show oh okay
maybe not like a question but just I
thought I know that that it that ideas
experimented with follow like tracking
mentions of ipfs the p2p and our other
projects using the internal I think it
was like internal BOTS so there's like
maybe some prior out there but I send
you link
after the co Lydell in his keeper of
historical endeavors knowledge is a sage
Jim you dick would you like to share a
thing
sure just uh keep my daily chart I
finally have a protocol AI email so you
don't have to email Jimmy Jimmy calm
anymore although you can still do that I
set up a little subdomain for Pierre pad
network and put links to these little
hashes and things that sort of come and
go and I've got like a little experiment
going on there I'm not done with it yet
and uh why don't he just touch base
about ipfs camp and help planning out
what the building the the how to build
apps with I profess that course should
be so I guess Liddell you go her
planning talked about that Lisbon so I
need to sync up some at some point
that's a voice thank you did you want to
share early desktop to I did a quick
little design review on do I need to go
there of primarily ipfs desktop just you
know from a visual standpoint and made
some notes about design and including
some accessibility pointers and just
[Music]
considering the overall structure of it
and at the same time kind of spurred me
to do a quick mock-up of what it might
look like if it was more of a dashboard
arrangement sort of the notion is like
Oh crazy ideas let's do some weird
and then and then hear about all the
reasons why that sort of approach was
never done and then you know maybe kind
of you know it helps me this is mostly
about helping Erica understand that all
this works but also maybe you know it
will help help me formulate some actual
recommendations that are incremental you
know to the way that that the app is is
built right now but one of the you know
one of the things is currently the the
currently the app has that the sidebar
where everything is kind of equal weight
when reality they're they're kind of
different animals in some way like
explore the Merkle tree or forest is
quite a different thing than you know
what peers do I have or or or what files
can I upload you know there's like
functional thing sort of a dashboard
readout thing and then sort of an
educational thing and then settings so
they're kind of different different
beasts as and and they also are the
sections you know some sections I might
want to rarely visit like settings you
know and so this this minimizes it but
where did they lost money so combination
with the that the notes that Ali for
example made on that issue and then the
notes in my I guess I will be here in my
designer view
I'll please feel free to to chime in if
you have if you have some some thoughts
there and then the I did a little survey
about ipfs desktop primarily I again
just the idea here is just educate me
plus to hopefully remind us all about
like what is the the user that we have
in
and how useful is what we're making for
them and what little incremental things
can we do to push push things towards
being a little bit you know as useful as
possible and a little better
nice yeah it's been a lot of like me
servicing on verbalized assumptions
which is always good Terry would you
like to share a thing
you are yeah I just figured it out Oh
share so uh one thing that I just did is
made part of school works in social
cards so this is what it look like on
Twitter and Facebook
maybe we'll decide we want different
pictures or words at some point but this
is much better than not having these and
this is something that we're gonna have
to fix once once were able to see that
the tutorials or things that we think of
as pages are different pages in the SP a
and then hopefully we can do something
more targeted so a tutorial could have
its own card and you could share it but
for now this is something that's generic
enough to just be shared in general I've
been doing a lot of prep work for
offline cam web stuff budgeting stuff
there's a save the date there if I you
think you have people in your networks
that care about offline first whether or
not they care about decentralized feel
free to share that and we will make the
big announcement of the location soon um
lots of other protocol UX stuff in the
works do go has been awesome so we've
spent a lot of time kind of
brainstorming and working together to
make stuff happen there um I built a
react component there's an app it's in
react it works for my class
more to come on me actually know and
react so the files tutorial I think we
might have talked a little bit about it
on this call last week that I was
feeling stuck between are we doing em FS
are we doing not MSS so I'm feeling
better because I've picked the clear
direction which is to make this tutorial
will be about em FS in part because a
few people agree that it's the most kind
of beginner focused content and in part
because blobs until Hugo fixes it aren't
supported in the non em FS methods in
the browser so we have lessons now and
files right falsa LS and then I added
one yesterday on file dot mcdr which I
just haven't done the validation for
it's a very interesting learning process
because I get like I look at the
documentation and then I write what
seems like it would probably be the
truth like translating the this much of
the repo to sentences about how you
would do something and then when I try
to do the validation I'm like oh
that's not how that works right alright
let's try again I won't talk about the
validation challenges cuz you already
hit on that
Chrissa PR if you're interested so next
step actually doing the launch for camp
and then more work on this and my first
lesson this is the best thing in terms
of content that I'm working on there's
lots of UX stuff they were so in the
middle of and then better instructions
for tutorial authors Allium hoping that
you will have some time to poke around
in the structural changes that Diogo
made which we did already put up there's
more that will come when the file upload
is added that changes it but we've
already made some improvements to the
instructions for adding your tutorial a
piece that's missing there is just what
is good instructional methodology like
one thing at a time or those kinds of
concepts and you so you mentioned a
couple of things when we were in Lisbon
one of them was helping people
understand what's good educationally and
one was making sure that people can
build tutorials easily so I'm curious
how much of your ideas for like
restructuring the project to support
that building we've already knocked
often the changes we made or if you had
any other ideas that we should also be
implementing now before other people
build for camp
I think you'd volunteered to kind of be
the guinea pig and go first for the next
set of building so if you have feedback
that stuff that we should be changing
sooner rather than later to support camp
that'd be great
it was mostly me volunteering to be the
guinea pig and we did a bunch of work
for a few years back when we had to
build a workshop and give it to people
and so can only I can offer from
experience but and mostly look I'll be a
bikini pig and say this doesn't make
sense
great that's Jessica did you want to
share a thing have anything really to
share yet other than hello it's a
pleasure to meet you all and look
forward to learning more and hearing
more so thanks guys
all the people on this call are really
nice so you should feel free to contact
any of them privately if you're like
what does this mean what does that mean
or not privately depending on your hair
I'm confident you're feeling are you are
you officially on like specific working
groups like project managing specific
things so I'm my specific focus right
now is package managers is kind of TBD
and so I'm just sitting in as much as I
possibly can meantime very cool we
working on fine and it's a couple agenda
points so would you cover them what did
you want to say something about cv1
yeah so it's like sort of a follow-up to
that problem we've just CID solved but
taking it step further basically right
now when people opt in to adding content
to ipfs using CID v1 they get CID v1 in
base 58 I think and then we everywhere
we usually say that base 42 is the
future but if it's the future why the
default representation of CID v1 is
still based 58 so like my idea is that
basically can we like just change the
default representation of the adg-1
everywhere
removing bass 58 because like people
have been asking me multiple times why
why bass 48 it's still like I opted in
I added content and I got this CD
something instead of Buffy I think
that's perfectly reasonable you you sort
of in charge of wrangling forward
progress on the endeavor so I think you
get to say we we should do this and
rattle rattle sabers and
make sure that there's no burning reason
I think Alan would have a more insight
into what blocks that right now but his
process has been change all of the
foundational building blocks so they
don't set on fire when they do receive
for base 30 to encode it's the ID so
that when we come to actually flip the
switch the final change is a very tiny
one the thing is that I believe this
would be part of preparing our libraries
and entire record system for nightly has
come it would just remove this element
of surprise that people we say you can
use CATV one today jujhar can opt in to
that and remove the problem of
converting it between different bases so
I probably create issues for go ipfs and
jails ipfs yeah move it forward whatever
set some for because of this change
which is hopefully nothing it's a
documentation and education effort it's
a promotion it's like stop using base 58
that's the that's the like t-shirt that
you need to get yeah but yeah let's um
let's change the default in JC ID and
see what happens
all right one way of doing it Deitrick I
feel that language repinning that's
gonna be a long and open-ended just
debate should we shuttle that for the
next week or do you want to talk about
it tomorrow no I think I have one ask
which is real quick if anybody has links
to the issues or previous discussions
around this if you could drop them in
there that would be great review and
talk about it until at least my my issue
with another really short one which is
if we are gonna if it is time to do a
care of you maybe we should schedule a a
part of this meeting to be dedicated to
that so that we can share in this
meeting very explicitly in the part of
the meeting that is here's what we plan
to do for the next three butts feedback
would be great yeah instead of hiding it
tucked into the different individual
taste for shoes maybe we should have a
column from like waiting another week
seems an ideal this this time tomorrow
to talk about cars would anyone be up
for that interested I can't see everyone
so I'm going to stop sharing my screen
okay I'm gonna send out an invite first
another call this time tomorrow to do
immune okay I'll check it's three
minutes to go I really want to see
hugosthere Hugo would you do us the
honors while he's looking for that I
should say we can talk about envy I'm
like the best happens tomorrow as well
but okay good nice time okay so I'm
gonna show you hopefully something that
works so let's just start the demon
[Music]
let's add something to like your face
and we get ask Eddie
now hopefully we'll be able to publish
this Cid if I'm able to write okay okay
we it's my began s now the fun part is
to see if we can resolve it first
okay that's not too bad we are below 10
minutes so I think well I'm hopefully I
hopefully will get this a little bit
down hopefully a hundred milliseconds
but that's another matter
this still very early there's still some
bugs to be fixed on some areas of the
cold because some data store stuff I'll
still need to go through all the use
cases like the gateway result pointing a
dns to the gateway and the gateway
redirecting through the DNS link and
stuff like that but yeah this is
basically doing all the validation that
boots validates everything so we I can
guarantee that only the same PRI D can
change the IP NS records yeah so
basically it's working yeah the next
step this is basically working through
CloudFlare workers so we type in s /
workers what yeah so basically it uses
the work assist the court the workers as
the API so it's highly distributed this
is perfect for the browser because all
the HTTP requests to resolve an IP NS
will be really fast because it they will
be really near the end user and the
worker basically saves the records on
the key value store that each workers
each worker as access to
and yeah that's basically how this works
the next step will be DNS right that's
gonna say interesting dependency yes
selves yeah it's the the way to be able
to do this without saying to the end
users okay you need to run some demon to
answer the NS requests or stuff like
that needs to be a solution like this
this is not like the final solution but
it works and it's self-certifying so
there's not much trust on the CloudFlare
workers and the cold is like really
small so hopefully I'll be able to
convince everyone that this can be a
solution a solution in a near-term so
yeah what don't you guys think about
this
I mean sub sub 10 minutes is good so the
second is unreal yes imagine a hard
dependency on CloudFlare it's gonna be a
tough tough proposition to get past
thanks it will but it's without yeah
that's what I said it's it's not ideal
but it works for everyone without
telling them like you need to set up
your own and stuff like that so
let's see and it's really easy to deploy
because it's there requires no
participants participants on the info
team and it's really really really
shipped to to maintain so we always like
the demon will try all the methods that
it has available to them so we can try
I've been s over the DHT can try a penis
over the
dnas I've been s over whatever and
basically the first one wins
and people can opt out or opt in to each
each of them so I think that's the trick
like the the lip p2p stack is designed
to be configurable so you choose the
pieces and transports and discovery
mechanisms that make sense for your app
I'm unaware of like how pluggable the
IPS resolution mechanism is right now
but it should be it's not really
pluggable right now it's a lot but it
should be right yeah it should be
alright that's here that's your angle
like this is a totally valid
implementation of what should be a
strategy pattern yeah nice alright any
other questions for here very exciting
this came up and the the package I need
is called yesterday and the general was
like how fast does it need to be for a
massive dependency tree like are you
just loading first-order dependencies
can it be kind of about you know 10
seconds to five seconds to one second
resolution time and Alex's point was no
because the IPS records might appear at
any depth in the tree and you know
you've got many first-order dependencies
and you've got a huge number of third
order dependencies and if they are all
on my pin s and they will take over a
second to resolve your install time is
boiling out the water so the point there
was like oh but we don't want to have
any points of centralization and we're
like oh we have two battles to fight and
one is that like if s needs to work in
an offline scenario but and in an off in
a fully like the there's a net split or
there's like the backbone has been
broken you will tolerate a few seconds
of lookup time using a DHT but if you're
also competing against HTTP and
centralized services you should use
mechanisms that that also work quickly
where there is where there is those
options work
fast as you can when you have all of the
things available and work when
everything is on fire
yeah music plays it's like that we just
need for now a near-future solution that
it actually works so you gets people to
start using this stuff and publishing
websites with this stuff
just like that the dead guys did it they
started with something that works and
then they are evolving to something more
decentralized noise alright we are over
time any last questions any last
thoughts and that is the end of this
week's in web browsers and ipfs cuy
weekly sinkholes see you same time same
place next week and also tomorrow
depending on your excitement about ok
our planning i will suddenly invite how
we gotta read we got to rename those
hopes jury hopes and dreams planning
hopes and dreams per quarter near took
near-term hopes and dreams i find even
the notion of quarters it's alright
thanks for for coming see you later